Woody - [commenting on screen while turn calculating]
Something else that just came to mind, mostly as a nice front end tweak,
 would be to have the units etc move smoothly between turns, over maybe 10 seconds,
 so you can see events happening, maybe even have battles in the middle of the move
 if two forces occupy same territory at same time, 
 or it could show a unit group attempting to intercept or evade another. 
 I don't think there would need to be anything extra on back end to make this work though.
 So can be forgotten about until nearly finished
 
 Phil[infastructure] .net6 in nov change .net8
 We discussed how come back mechanics for us wernt a good idea. 
 And how feeling tactical choices were. 
 And how declaring a victory condition to shoot for added end game drama 
 and could level playing field. 
 Success you win game fail moral drop alliance against you less ahead. 
 So I thought as a concept this should be risky choices to get a head (or win) 
 e.g with dyson sphere if you canibakise your own planets to make.
 Then have a planet turned into some destructable resource during the process.
 If it gets taken out you've lost a system and depending how many local 
 planets opportunity to make dyson sphere. Invites enemies to make tactical choices :)
 -so game winning moments with risk of leveling playing field by enemies tactical reactions 
 be it by diplomacy and forming alliances or subterfuge and sabotage etc
 
 Phil [Technology]
 We could have a trunk system where if you want to speed through tech you skip branches of tech
 but branches have fun stuff in them but theyre esoteric so do not add to your general science progress
 I dont know how it would work though once you pass that tech stage if your tech 9 
 could you go back and do the level 2 branches? Maybe dnd classes would be useful food for thought on this.
 Or a system where to unlock a tech level you need 3+ techs of the tech level below researched
 so a closer link between objects and tech would be nice if the fast routes had consequences so were a mixed
 blessing e.g. climate change, population, moral impacted
 
 Woody[in response]
Other options include bonuses for race that reaches specific branch first, leads to uniqueness with an otherwise linear system

Phil [written on reflection not in the original chat]love this idea but feels a bit like double dipping
you get the tech advantage and the moral advantage? or like in startrek diplomacy options like writing into contracts they cant develop that tech
have a red background and a flag in the systems for things that are treaty breaking so players can chose to do things theyve said they wont
but wont do so by mistake --- also bannable research first to do gen modding gets genetically modifed soldiers but then there 
is a ban on the tech so only you have them --see angosian episode in star trek or doctor bashir episode ds9 for inspiration

Woody [response to bannable] Maybe should be advantage to getting two level ahead like crytography
in sabotage and bio weapons, better cloaking

Phil [not in whatsapp chat but on review] double dipping but love it maybe tech levels should be hard
to keep as an advantage but be a good advantage, so once someone hits tech level 4 all it takes is
diplomicacy, defection, espionage, stealing a ship or planet to get hold of the tech, but while they have
it they have some really good advantages. --this would provoke some tactical response from players
maybe esoteric tech would be kept but the general tech level would be come 50% easier once exposed to superior
technology - we didnt want catch up mechanics but this one would be overt and could have some good advantages